---
title: Authentication with the {{site.mesh_product_name}} API server
description: Authenticate users and automation tools to the control plane API server using user tokens, including token generation, rotation, and revocation.

content_type: reference
layout: reference
products:
  - mesh
breadcrumbs:
  - /mesh/

related_resources:
  - text: Manage secrets
    url: /mesh/manage-secrets/
  - text: Mesh ports
    url: /mesh/use-kuma/#control-plane-ports
  - text: Zone Ingress
    url: /mesh/zone-ingress/
---

{{site.mesh_product_name}} exposes its API server on [ports](/mesh/interact-with-control-plane/#control-plane-ports) `5681` and `5682`. An authenticated user can be authorized to execute administrative actions such as:
* Managing administrative resources like {{site.mesh_product_name}} secrets on Universal.
* Generating user tokens, data plane proxy tokens, zone ingress tokens, and zone tokens.

## User token

A user token is a signed JWT token that contains:
* The name of the user
* The list of groups that a user belongs to
* The expiration date of the token

### Groups

Groups in {{site.mesh_product_name}} allow you to manage API permissions for users. A user can be a part of multiple groups. 
{{site.mesh_product_name}} adds two groups to a user automatically:
* Authenticated users are added to `mesh-system:authenticated`.
* Unauthenticated users are added to `mesh-system:unauthenticated`.

### Admin user token

{{site.mesh_product_name}} creates an admin user token on the first start of the control plane.
The admin user token is a user token issued for users in the `mesh-system:admin` group.
This group is authorized by default to execute all administrative operations.

#### Configure kumactl with an admin user token

{% navtabs "Environment" %}
{% navtab "Kubernetes" %}
1. Use `kubectl` to extract the admin token:

   ```sh
   kubectl get secret admin-user-token -n {{site.mesh_namespace}} {% raw %}--template={{.data.value}}{% endraw %} | base64 -d
   ```

1. Expose the {{site.mesh_product_name}} control plane to make it accessible from your machine using one of the following methods:
   * Port-forward port 5681.
   * Expose port 5681 and protect it with TLS or expose port 5682 with built-in via a load balancer.
   * Expose port 5681 using an `Ingress` (for example {{site.kic_product_name}}) and protect it with TLS.

1. Configure `kumactl` with the admin user token:
   ```sh
   kumactl config control-planes add \
     --name my-control-plane \
     --address https://$CONTROL_PLANE_ADDRESS:5682 \
     --auth-type=tokens \
     --auth-conf token=$GENERATED_TOKEN \
     --ca-cert-file=$CA_FILE_PATH
   ```

   {:.info}
   > If you are using the `5681` port, change the schema to `http://`. If you want to skip CP verification, use `--skip-verify` instead of `--ca-cert-file`.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "Universal" %}
1. Run the following command on the machine where you deployed the control plane to generate the token:
   ```sh
   curl http://localhost:5681/global-secrets/admin-user-token | jq -r .data | base64 -d
   ```

1. Configure `kumactl` with admin user token
   ```sh
   kumactl config control-planes add \
     --name my-control-plane \
     --address https://$CONTROL_PLANE_ADDRESS:5682 \
     --auth-type=tokens \
     --auth-conf token=$GENERATED_TOKEN \
     --ca-cert-file=$CA_FILE_PATH
   ```

   {:.info}
   > If you are using the `5681` port, change the schema to `http://`. If you want to skip CP verification, use `--skip-verify` instead of `--ca-cert-file`.

1. Disable localhost as admin. By default, all requests originating from the localhost are authenticated as a `mesh-system:admin` user.
   After you retrieve and store the admin token, [configure a control plane](/mesh/control-plane-configuration/) with `KUMA_API_SERVER_AUTHN_LOCALHOST_IS_ADMIN` set to `false`.
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

### Generate user tokens

To generate user tokens, you must provide the credentials of a user authorized to generate user tokens.
If you have configured `kumactl` with an admin user token, you can use the following command to create a user token:

```sh
kumactl generate user-token \
  --name john \
  --group team-a \
  --valid-for 24h
```

With the API, you must provide a token in the `Authorization` header:

```sh
curl localhost:5681/tokens/user \
  -H'authorization: Bearer eyJhbGc...' \
  -H'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"name": "john","groups": ["team-a"], "validFor": "24h"}' 
```

### Revoke user tokens

{% include /mesh/token-revocation.md type="user" %}

### Rotate the signing key

A user token is signed by a signing key which is autogenerated on the first start of the control plane.

{% include /mesh/signing-key-rotation.md type="user" %}

### Disable the admin user token

You can remove the default admin user token from storage and prevent it from being recreated.
Keep in mind that removing the admin user token doesn't remove the signing key.
Anyone with access to the signing key can generate a new admin token.

{% navtabs "Environment" %}
{% navtab "Kubernetes" %}
1. Delete the `admin-user-token` secret
   ```sh
   kubectl delete secret admin-user-token -n kuma-namespace
   ```

1. Disable the token bootstrap by [configuring your control plane](/mesh/control-plane-configuration/) with the `KUMA_API_SERVER_AUTHN_TOKENS_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_TOKEN` variable set to `false`.
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "Universal" %}
1. Delete `admin-user-token` global secret:
   ```sh
   kumactl delete global-secret admin-user-token
   ```

2. Disable the token bootstrap by [configuring your control plane](/mesh/control-plane-configuration/) with the `KUMA_API_SERVER_AUTHN_TOKENS_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_TOKEN` variable set to `false`.
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}


## Offline token issuing

{% include /mesh/offline-token.md type="user" %}

## Multi-zone

In multi-zone mode, users execute a majority of actions on the global control plane.
However, some actions such as generating data plane tokens, are available on the zone control plane.
The global control plane doesn't propagate authentication credentials to the zone control plane.
You can set up consistent user tokens across the whole environment by manually copying signing keys from the global control plane to zone control planes. 
