---
title: "Contributing to docs"
content_type: reference
layout: reference

breadcrumbs:
  - /contributing/

tags:
  - contributing

description: "Learn about the page types and page blocks you can use to contribute documentation to the Kong Developer site."

related_resources:
  - text: "placeholder"
    url: /

products:
    - gateway

works_on:
    - konnect
    - on-prem
tools:
    - deck
---

The Kong Developer site uses custom page types and Liquid blocks to render content on a page. This page explains how to write the different page types as well as the different blocks you can use on a page.

## Page types

The Kong Developer site uses the following different page types:

{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Page type
    key: type
  - title: Description
    key: description
  - title: Examples
    key: examples
rows:
  - type: Reference
    description: Describes conceptual information as well as reference information, like tables, schemas, or diagrams.
    examples: |
        * [Gateway Service entity](/gateway/entities/service/)<br>
        * [{{site.konnect_short_name}} teams and roles](/konnect-platform/teams-and-roles/)<br>
        * [KIC fallback configuration](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/fallback-configuration/)<br>
        * [Service Catalog scorecards](/service-catalog/scorecards/)<br>
  - type: Landing page
    description: Acts as a "sign-post" page to direct users to the correct reference or how to page. These can contain some conceptual or reference material, like feature tables, as long as the goal is to help a user determine which page they should click next.
    examples: |
        * [{{site.base_gateway}} overview](/gateway/)<br>
        * [Load balancing with {{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/load-balancing/)<br>
        * [AI Gateway overview](/ai-gateway/)<br>
        * [Securing {{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/security/)<br>
  - type: How to
    description: |
        Provides an end-to-end tutorial on a use case. In most scenarios, the goal is for users to copy and paste down the page to achieve their goal. All prerequisites are listed in the how to. How tos **never** assume a user has tools, products, or specific configurations installed.
    examples: |
        * [Get started with Kong Gateway](/gateway/get-started/)<br>
        * [Ensure chatbots adhere to compliance policies with the AI RAG Injector plugin](/how-to/use-ai-rag-injector-plugin/)<br>
        * [Set up a custom plugin project](/custom-plugins/get-started/set-up-plugin-project/)<br>
        * [Configure HashiCorp Vault as a vault backend](/how-to/configure-hashicorp-vault-as-a-vault-backend/)<br>
  - type: Autogenerated
    description: Certain reference pages, like schema or configuration references, are autogenerated.
    examples: |
        * [Kong Gateway configuration reference](/gateway/configuration/)<br>
        * [Kong Gateway changelog](/gateway/changelog/)<br>
        * [Plugin API references](/plugins/hmac-auth/api/)<br>
        * [Plugin configuration references](/plugins/hmac-auth/reference/)<br>
{% endtable %}

## Core tenants

Contributors should keep these core tenants in mind when creating or editing documentation on the Kong Developer site:

* **Every page is page one:** Users should be able to answer their question in one page. Don't separate conceptual information from configuration information, all the reference information about a particular use case should be on one page.
* **How tos should have automated testing:** The majority of how tos should be written in a style so that users can copy and paste their way down the page. This allows us to run automated tests that verify that the how to, and the product, is functioning as intended.

## Landing page blocks

## How to and reference page blocks

You can use certain Liquid syntax blocks in how to and reference pages to help render {{site.base_gateway}} entity examples or curl requests.

### Entity examples

The `entity_examples` block generates an entity example, with support for multiple entities in a block. This renders in the format based on the tool you've specified in the page metadata. Use `entity_example` if you want an entity example with a tab for each supported tool.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: rate-limiting
      consumer: jsmith
      config:
        minute: 5
        hour: 1000
{% endentity_examples %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: rate-limiting
      consumer: jsmith
      config:
        minute: 5
        hour: 1000
{% endentity_examples %}
{:.no-copy-code}

### Entity example

Generates a multi-tab example for an entity with one tab for each tool. For example, the [Set up a Consumer](/gateway/entities/consumer/#set-up-a-consumer ) section. Use `entity_examples` if you want to only render the example for one tool.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% entity_example %}
type: consumer
data:
  custom_id: example-consumer-id
  username: example-consumer
  tags:
    - silver-tier
{% endentity_example %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% entity_example %}
type: consumer
data:
  custom_id: example-consumer-id
  username: example-consumer
  tags:
    - silver-tier
{% endentity_example %}

### Tables
All tables should use the `table` block and be written in `yaml`. 

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Deprecated setting
    key: deprecated
  - title: New setting
    key: new
rows:
  - deprecated: |
      `preserve` mode in `config.route_type`
    new: "`config.llm_format`"
  - deprecated: |
      `config.model.options.upstream_path`
    new: "`config.model.options.upstream_url`"
{% endtable %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Deprecated setting
    key: deprecated
  - title: New setting
    key: new
rows:
  - deprecated: |
      `preserve` mode in `config.route_type`
    new: "`config.llm_format`"
  - deprecated: |
      `config.model.options.upstream_path`
    new: "`config.model.options.upstream_url`"
{% endtable %}

### Feature table

If you want a table that shows which features are supported or not, use the `feature_table` block. This turns boolean values into checkmarks or X.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% feature_table %} 
item_title: Mesh RBAC Role
columns:
  - title: Description
    key: description
  - title: Scoped Globally
    key: global_scope

features:
  - title: "`AccessRole`"
    description: Specifies the access and resources that are granted.
    global_scope: true
  - title: "`AccessRoleBinding`"
    description: |
      Assigns a set of `AccessRoles` to a set of objects (users and groups). 
    global_scope: true

{% endfeature_table %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% feature_table %} 
item_title: Mesh RBAC Role
columns:
  - title: Description
    key: description
  - title: Scoped Globally
    key: global_scope

features:
  - title: "`AccessRole`"
    description: Specifies the access and resources that are granted.
    global_scope: true
  - title: "`AccessRoleBinding`"
    description: |
      Assigns a set of `AccessRoles` to a set of objects (users and groups). 
    global_scope: true

{% endfeature_table %}

### kong.conf table

Renders a list of `kong.conf` parameters into a table.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% kong_config_table %}
config:
  - name: proxy_server
  - name: proxy_server_ssl_verify
  - name: cluster_use_proxy
  - name: lua_ssl_trusted_certificate
{% endkong_config_table %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% kong_config_table %}
config:
  - name: proxy_server
  - name: proxy_server_ssl_verify
  - name: cluster_use_proxy
  - name: lua_ssl_trusted_certificate
{% endkong_config_table %}

### Navtab groups

You can use `navtabs` to create tabs with different labels.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% navtabs "deploy-a-license" %}
{% navtab "Admin API" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "license.json" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% navtabs "deploy-a-license" %}
{% navtab "Admin API" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "license.json" %}

text

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

### {{site.konnect_short_name}} roles

Creates a table with the {{site.konnect_short_name}} roles and descriptions.

```
{% raw %}{% konnect_roles_table %}
schema: control_planes
{% endkonnect_roles_table %}{% endraw %}
```

### Version badge

Displays which version a feature was introduced in. You can use this in headers, tables, and inline text.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% new_in 3.8 %} New feature{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% new_in 3.8 %} New feature

### No copy code
No-copy-code directive
```
{% raw %}{:.no-copy-code}{% endraw %}
```

### Render codeblock/text per deployment type
Displays the codeblock/text only if the specified deployment type is selected.
```
{% raw %}{: data-deployment-topology="konnect" }
{: data-deployment-topology="on-prem" }{% endraw %}
```
### Notes and warnings

You can specify different types of notes and warnings.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{:.warning} # yellow note
{:.info} # blue note
{:.success} # green note
{:.danger} # red note
{:.neutral} # grey note
{:.decorative} # purple note
{:.info .no-icon} # add to any note type to remove the icon {% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{:.warning} # yellow note
{:.info} # blue note
{:.success} # green note
{:.danger} # red note
{:.neutral} # grey note
{:.decorative} # purple note
{:.info .no-icon} # add to any note type to remove the icon

### How to validations

How tos typically include a validation step as the final step. This allows users to verify that the steps worked as intended. Validation steps are written in a `yaml` block to ensure consistency and that it is formatted correctly in the output.

#### Rate limit check

The `rate-limit-check` validation creates a codeblock that users can run to exceed rate limits.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% validation rate-limit-check %}
iterations: 6
url: '/anything'
headers:
 - 'apikey:example-key'
{% endvalidation %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% validation rate-limit-check %}
iterations: 6
url: '/anything'
headers:
 - 'apikey:example-key'
{% endvalidation %}

#### Request check

The `request-check` validation generates a codeblock that users can run to validate a request.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% validation request-check %}
url: '/anything' # prepends the proxy URL, either konnect or on-prem
status_code: 200
display_headers: true # adds -i to display headers in response
headers: # adds headers to the request
  - "Kong-Admin-Token: $USER_TOKEN"
method: GET
body:  # accepts any request body
  user:
    name: Kong User
    city: London
{% endvalidation %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% validation request-check %}
url: '/anything' 
status_code: 200
display_headers: true 
headers: 
  - "Kong-Admin-Token: $USER_TOKEN"
method: GET
body:  
  user:
    name: Kong User
    city: London
{% endvalidation %}

#### Unauthorized check

The `unauthorized-check` generates a codeblock that users can run to validate that a Consumer is unauthorized.

Code example:
```
{% raw %}{% validation unauthorized-check %}
url: /anything
headers:
  - 'authorization: Bearer wrongpassword'
  - 'Content-Type: application/json'
status_code: 401
{% endvalidation %}{% endraw %}
```

Rendered output:
{% validation unauthorized-check %}
url: /anything
headers:
  - 'authorization: Bearer wrongpassword'
  - 'Content-Type: application/json'
status_code: 401
{% endvalidation %}

## Tools

### Broken link checker: ignore URls

```
tools/broken-link-checker/config/ignored_targets.json
```
### Generate kong.conf reference

### Sources.yaml
