---
title: "LLM usage reporting"
content_type: reference
layout: reference
description: | 
    Advanced Analytics allows you to monitor and optimize your LLM usage by providing detailed insights into objects such as token consumption, costs, and latency.

min_version:
  gateway: '3.8'
products:
    - gateway
works_on:
    - konnect
api_specs:
    - konnect/analytics-requests
related_resources:
  - text: Konnect Advanced Analytics
    url: /advanced-analytics/
  - text: Explorer Reference
    url: /advanced-analytics/explorer/
schema:
    api: konnect/analytics-requests
faqs:
  - q: What data can I collect LLM data from?
    a: |
        * **Application**
        * **Cache Status**
        * **Consumer**
        * **Control Plane**
        * **Control Plane Group**
        * **Embeddings Model**
        * **Embeddings Provider**
        * **Provider**
        * **Request Model**
        * **Response Model**
        * **Route**
  - q: What can I do after customizing an Explorer dashboard?
    a: |
        * **Save as a Report**: This function creates a new custom report based on your current view, allowing you to revisit these specific insights at a later time.
        * **Export as CSV**: If you prefer to analyze your data using other tools, you can download the current view as a CSV file, making it portable and ready for further analysis elsewhere.    
---


Advanced Analytics allows you to monitor and optimize your LLM usage by providing detailed insights into objects such as token consumption, costs, and latency. 

With LLM usage reporting, you can:

* Track token consumption: Monitor the number of tokens processed by the different LLM models you have configured. 
* Understand costs: Gain visibility into the costs associated with your LLM providers. 
* Measure latency: Analyze the latency involved in processing LLM requests. 

To use this feature, navigate to the [Explorer dashboard](https://cloud.konghq.com/us/analytics/explorer) and switch between API usage and LLM usage using the dataset dropdown. Metrics and groupings will dynamically adjust based on the selected dataset. 




## Metrics

Traffic metrics provide insight into which of your services are being used and how they are responding. Within a single report, you have the flexibility to choose one or multiple metrics from the same category.

<!--vale off-->
{% table %}
columns:
  - title: "Attribute"
    key: "attribute"
  - title: "Unit"
    key: "unit"
  - title: "Description"
    key: "description"
rows:
  - attribute: "Completion Tokens"
    unit: "Count"
    description: "Completion tokens are any tokens that the model generates in response to an input."
  - attribute: "Prompt Tokens"
    unit: "Count"
    description: "Prompt tokens are the number of tokens in the prompt that are input into the model."
  - attribute: "Total Tokens"
    unit: "Count"
    description: "Sum of all tokens used in a single request to the model. It includes both the tokens in the input (prompt) and the tokens generated by the model (completion)."
  - attribute: "Time per Tokens"
    unit: "Number"
    description: "Average time in milliseconds to generate a token. Calculated as LLM latency divided by the number of tokens."
  - attribute: "Costs"
    unit: "Cost"
    description: "Represents the resulting costs for a request. Final costs = (total number of prompt tokens × input cost per token) + (total number of completion tokens × output cost per token) + (total number of prompt tokens × embedding cost per token)."
  - attribute: "Response Model"
    unit: "String"
    description: "Represents which AI model was used to process the prompt by the AI provider."
  - attribute: "Request Model"
    unit: "String"
    description: "Represents which AI model was used to process the prompt."
  - attribute: "Provider Name"
    unit: "String"
    description: "Represents which AI provider was used to process the prompt."
  - attribute: "Plugin ID"
    unit: "String"
    description: "Represents the UUID of the plugin."
  - attribute: "LLM Latency"
    unit: "Latency"
    description: "Total time taken to receive a full response after a request sent from Kong (LLM latency + connection time)."
  - attribute: "Embeddings Latency"
    unit: "Latency"
    description: "Time taken to generate the vector for the prompt string."
  - attribute: "Fetch Latency"
    unit: "Latency"
    description: "Total time taken to return a cache."
  - attribute: "Cache Status"
    unit: "String"
    description: "Shows if the response comes directly from the upstream or not. Possible values: `hit` or `Miss`."
  - attribute: "Embeddings Model"
    unit: "String"
    description: "AI providers may have multiple embedding models. This represents the model used for the embeddings."
  - attribute: "Embeddings Provider"
    unit: "String"
    description: "Provider used for generating embeddings."
  - attribute: "Embeddings Token"
    unit: "Count"
    description: "Tokens input into the model for embeddings."
  - attribute: "Embeddings Cost"
    unit: "Cost"
    description: "Cost of caching."
  - attribute: "Cost Savings"
    unit: "Cost"
    description: "Cost savings from cache."
{% endtable %}
<!--vale on-->

## Time intervals

The time frame selector controls the time frame of data visualized, which indirectly controls the
granularity of the data. For example, the “5M” selection displays five minutes in
one-second resolution data, while longer time frames display minute, hour, or days resolution data.

All time interval presets are **relative**. 
For custom reports, you can also choose a **custom** date range.

* **Relative** time frames are dynamic and the report captures a snapshot of data
relative to when a user views the report.
* **Custom** time frames are static and the report captures a snapshot of data
during the specified time frame. You can see the exact range below
the time frame selector. For example:

    ```
    Jan 26, 2023 12:00 AM - Feb 01, 2023 12:00 AM (PST)
    ```
The following table describes the time intervals you can select:

<!--vale off-->
{% table %}
columns:
  - title: "Interval"
    key: "interval"
  - title: "Aggregation increment frequency"
    key: "aggregation_increment_frequency"
  - title: "Notes"
    key: "notes"
rows:
  - interval: "Last 15 minutes"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 minute"
    notes: ""
  - interval: "Last hour"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 minute"
    notes: ""
  - interval: "Last six hours"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 minute"
    notes: ""
  - interval: "Last 12 hours"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 hour"
    notes: ""
  - interval: "Last 24 hours"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 hour"
    notes: ""
  - interval: "Last seven days"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 hour"
    notes: ""
  - interval: "Last 30 days"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "Daily"
    notes: ""
  - interval: "Current week"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 hour"
    notes: "Logs any traffic in the current calendar week."
  - interval: "Current month"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 hour"
    notes: "Logs any traffic in the current calendar month."
  - interval: "Previous week"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "1 hour"
    notes: "Logs any traffic in the previous calendar week."
  - interval: "Previous month"
    aggregation_increment_frequency: "Daily"
    notes: "Logs any traffic in the previous calendar month."
{% endtable %}
<!--vale on-->

